Let's see how to continuously improve our project definition document process.
Remember this is just your starter list,
so all those categories we talked about in the last several slides,
that's your starter list, always see if you can't improve with each new project,
so continuously build up your document with each project,
add more topics, either major topics or minor topics,
just use the heading levels in Microsoft Word,
make it very, very easy for you.
As an example in legal and regulatory, we had an example before.
Now maybe we add in addition to, you know,
the ADA, we'll add HIPAA, and PCI, and SOX,
Sarbanes-Oxley, and for each project, maybe ADA is none,
HIPAA, maybe we have that as a particular regulatory requirement,
maybe PCI we have, and maybe Sarbanes-Oxley we don't have.
So what I'm trying to explain to you is,
it's very important not only to say what's in a project,
but what's not in a project.
So a very solid project definition document will enable
you to quickly gather key requirements, and as always,
quality key requirements drive better project planning.
So remember,
the project definition document is the first high-level step
that is a key part of our project planning.
Now, let's check our work.
Before proceeding with the detailed planning portion of this module,
let's check to be sure our project definition document is sufficiently robust.
Is it clear why this project is being undertaken?
So as you look over your document, is everything in there accounted for,
is it clear on why it's going to be undertaken,
is the scope clear and concise,
is what it is we're going to do clearly and concisely documented?
And those project stakeholders we talked about,
are they on board, are they focused,
do they understand what the project is all about?
If not,
make sure you talk to them and explain to them what the project's all about,
and how they will benefit from it, and what help you need from them.
We talked about recommended approaches, of those approaches,
maybe call out which one might be the best option.
We have three options, I think option two is the best.
Risks are always important to identify for senior management,
are they clearly identified, and if so, for each particular risk,
what would be the response or how you would react to that risk,
that needs to be documented as well.
Lastly, you want all those stakeholders to review,
agree, and approve to move the project forward,
if they do not, you will have many problems in a project,
so get them in a room, not one by one,
but in a room so they can hear each other's,
you know, comments, good, or bad, or whatever,
make sure they get reviewed, agreed, and approved,
that's the best way to start.
So that's kind of our checklist.
If we got all this in place, we got the PDD done,
we're ready to move forward with more detailed project planning.
So now that we know what we want to do in the project, let's talk about how we will do it in the next section of this module.